# Module 8: Designing a Communication Strategy by Using Queues and Service Bus

# Lab: Using Queues and Service Bus to Manage Communication Between Web Applications in Azure

## Exercise 1: Creating an Azure Service Bus Namespace

#### Task 1: Create the Service Bus namespace by using the Portal

> **Note:** Service Bus functionality is not available yet in the new Portal. Because of this, the Classic Portal will be used for this lab.

1. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

1. Go to [*https://manage.windowsazure.com*](https://manage.windowsazure.com)

1. In the email address box, type the email address of your Microsoft account.

1. In the password box, type the password for your Microsoft account.

1. Click **Sign In** In the navigation pane on the left side, scroll down, and then click **Service Bus**.

1. At the bottom of the screen, click **Create**.

1. In the **Create a Namespace** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. In the **Namespace** **Name** box, type **sb20532[*Your Name*]**.

  a. In the **Region** list, select the region that is closest to your location.

  a. In the **Type** list, select the **Messaging** option.

  a. In the **Messaging Tier** list, select the **Standard** option.

  a. Click the check mark button to create your namespace.

1. In the list of **Service Bus** namespaces, click the namespace that you just created.

1. At the bottom of the screen, click **Connection Information**.

1. Record the *RootManageSharedAccessKey* connection string from the **Access connection information** dialog box.

  > **Note:** You have to record a connection string from the list of SAS items.

1. Close the **Access connection information** dialog box.

1. At the top of the screen, click the **Queues** tab.

1. At the bottom-left corner of the screen, click **New**.

1. If it is not automatically selected, select **App Services =&gt; Service Bus =&gt; Queue =&gt; Custom Create**.

1. In the **Create a Queue** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. In the **Queue** **Name** box, type **signin**.

  a. In the **Region** list, select the same region that you selected for the namespace.

  a. In the **Namespace** box, provide the value **sb20532[Your Name]**.

  a. Click next arrow to move to the next step in the wizard.

  a. Leave all fields as their default values.

  a. Click the check mark button to create the new queue.

> **Results:** After completing this exercise, you will have created a Service Bus namespace by using the Portal.

## Exercise 2: Using Azure Queue Storage for Document Generation

#### Task 1: Update worker role to consume requests from the queue

1.  On the Start screen, click **Desktop**.

1. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

1. In the Libraries window, go to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Queues\\Contoso.Events**, and then double-click **Contoso.Events.sln.**

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** folder.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

1. Double-click the **TableStorageQueueHelper.cs** file.

1. At the end of the **TableStorageQueueHelper** constructor and before the closing parenthesis, store the **StorageAccount** property from the base class in a *CloudStorageAccount* variable:

  ```
  CloudStorageAccount storageAccount = base.StorageAccount;
  ```

1. Invoke the **CreateCloudQueueClient** method and assign the result to the *_queueClient* variable:

  ```
  _queueClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudQueueClient();
  ```

1. Invoke the static **CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting** method and assign the result to the *_signInQueueName* variable:

  ```
  _signInQueueName = CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("SignInQueueName");
  ```

1. In the **TableStorageQueueHelper** class, find the method with the following signature:

  ```
  IQueueMessage&lt;CloudQueueMessage&gt; Receive()
  ```

1. Remove the single line of code in the class:

  ```
  return new TableStorageQueueMessage(null);
  ```

1. At the end of the **Receive** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new instance of the **CloudQueue** class by calling the **GetQueueReference** method of the *CloudQueueClient* variable by using the **string** name of the queue, as shown in the following code:

  ```
  CloudQueue queue = _queueClient.GetQueueReference(_signInQueueName);
  ```

1. Invoke the **CreateIfNotExists** method to ensure that the queue exists.

  ```
  queue.CreateIfNotExists();
  ```

1. At the end of the **Receive** method and before the closing parenthesis, invoke the **GetMessage** method of the **CloudQueue** class and store the result in a *CloudQueueMessage* variable, as shown in the following code:

  ```
  CloudQueueMessage message = queue.GetMessage();
  ```

1. Pass the *CloudQueueMessage* variable into the constructor of the **TableStorageQueueMessage** class and return the result:

  ```
  return new TableStorageQueueMessage(message);
  ```

1. At the end of the **CompleteMessage** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new instance of the **CloudQueue** class by calling the **GetQueueReference** method of the *CloudQueueClient* variable by using the **string** name of the queue, as shown in the following code:

  ```
  CloudQueue queue = _queueClient.GetQueueReference(_signInQueueName);
  ```

1. Invoke the **CreateIfNotExists** method to ensure that the queue exists:

  ```
  queue.CreateIfNotExists();
  ```

1. At the end of the **CompleteMessage** method and before the closing parenthesis, invoke the **DeleteMessage** method by using the *CloudQueueMessage* variable as the parameter, as shown in the following code:

  ```
  queue.DeleteMessage(message);
  ```

#### Task 2: Update administration application to add requests to the queue

1.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** folder.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.

1. Double-click the **SignInSheetViewModel.cs** file.

1. At the beginning of the **GenerateSignInSheetTableStorage** method and after the opening parenthesis, create a **CloudStorageAccount** instance by using the static **CloudStorageAccount. Parse** method and the table storage connection string, as shown in the following code:

  ```
  CloudStorageAccount storageAccount = CloudStorageAccount.Parse(tableStorageConnectionString);
  ```

1. Create a new instance of the **CloudQueueClient** class by using the **CreateCloudQueueClient** method of the *CloudStorageAccount* variable:

  ```
  CloudQueueClient queueClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudQueueClient();
  ```

1. After the above mentioned code, create a new instance of the **CloudQueue** class by invoking the **GetQueueReference** method of the *CloudQueueClient* variable by using the queue name string variable, as shown in the following code.:

  ```
  CloudQueue queue = queueClient.GetQueueReference(signInQueueName);
  ```

1. Invoke the **CreateIfNotExists** method of the **CloudQueue** class to ensure that the queue exists:

  ```
  queue.CreateIfNotExists();
  ```

1. After the above mentioned code, create a new instance of the **CloudQueueMessage** class by passing in the string **message** into the constructor:

  ```
  CloudQueueMessage queueMessage = new CloudQueueMessage(message);
  ```

1. Invoke the **AddMessage** method of the *CloudQueue* variable by using the **CloudQueueMessage** as the parameter:

  ```
  queue.AddMessage(queueMessage);
  ```

#### Task 3: Generate the test data

1.  On the Start screen, type **Azure Storage Emulator**.

1. Click the **Windows Azure Storage Emulator – v4.2** tile.

1. Switch to the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation project**, point to **Debug,** and then click **Start New Instance**.

#### Task 4: Debug and verify the application

1.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events** solution, and then click **Properties**.

1. In the **Solution 'Contoso.Events' Property Pages** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. In the navigation menu on the left side of the dialog box, ensure that **CommonProperties** =&gt; **Startup Project** is selected.

  a. Select **Multiple startup projects**.

  a. For **Contoso.Events.Web**, set the **Action** to **Start**.

  a. For **Contoso.Events.Management**, set the **Action** to **Start without debugging**.

  a. Ensure that all of the remaining projects have their **Action** set to **None**.

  a. Click **OK**.

1. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.

1. In the **notification area**, click the arrow to view the running applications.

1. Locate and right-click the *IIS Express* icon.

1. Point to the **Contoso.Events.Management** option under the **View Sites** header, and then click the URL under the **Browse Applications** header.

1. Point to the **Contoso.Events.Web** option under the **View Sites** header, and then click the URL under **Browse Applications**.

1. On the desktop, click the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

1. Click the **View** menu and select the **Solution Explorer** option.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** folder.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

1. Double-click the **WorkerRole.cs** file.

1. Locate the **Run** method.

1. Locate the target line of code within the try-catch block:

  ```
  HandleMessage(message);
  ```

1. Right-click the target line of code, point to **Breakpoint**, and click **Insert Breakpoint**.

1. On the desktop, click the **Home - Contoso.Events.Administration** window.

1. On the home page of the **Administration** web application, click the **Events** button to go to the list of events.

1. Click **Sign-In Sheet** for any event in the list.

1. View the sign-in page which notifies you that the sign-in sheet is being generated with the following message: **Sign-In Document Generation in Progress**.

1. Wait for one minute for the worker role to receive the queue message.

1. Verify that the application temporarily pauses execution at the breakpoint.

1. Press *F5* to resume execution of the application.

1. Wait for one minute, and then refresh the sign-in sheet page.

1. Click **Sign-In Sheet** to download the sign-in sheet from the server.

1. Close the **Internet Explorer** application.

> **Results:** After completing this exercise, you will have created and consumed messages from Storage queues.

## Exercise 3: Using Service Bus Queues for Document Generation

#### Task 1: Update worker role to consume requests from the queue

1.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Web** project.

1. Double-click the **ServiceConfiguration.Local.cscfg** file.

1. Locate the **Setting** element with the name **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString**.

1. Replace the value with your previously recorded connection string.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** folder.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

1. Double-click the **ServiceBusQueueHelper.cs** file.

1. At the end of the **ServiceBusQueueHelper** constructor and before the closing parenthesis, store the **Microsoft**.**ServiceBus.ConnectionString** setting value from your Cloud configuration in a string variable, as shown in the following code:

  ```
  string serviceBusConnectionString = CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString");
  ```

1. Store the queue name in a string variable.

  ```
  string signInQueueName = CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("SignInQueueName");
  ```

1. Invoke the static **QueueClient.CreateFromConnectionString** method using the queue name and connection string as parameters, and assign the result to the *_client* variable, as shown in the following code:

  ```
  _client = QueueClient.CreateFromConnectionString(serviceBusConnectionString, signInQueueName);
  ```

1. In the **ServiceBusQueueHelper** class, find the method with the following signature:

  ```
  IQueueMessage&lt;BrokeredMessage&gt; Receive()
  ```

1. Remove the single line of code in the class:

  ```
  return new ServiceBusQueueMessage(null);
  ```

1. At the end of the **Receive** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new instance of the **CloudQueue** class by calling the **GetQueueReference** method of the *CloudQueueClient* variable using the **string** name of the queue, as shown in the following code:

  ```
  BrokeredMessage message = _client.Receive();
  ```

1. Invoke the **CreateIfNotExists** method to ensure that the queue exists

  ```
  return new ServiceBusQueueMessage(message);
  ```

1. At the end of the **CompleteMessage** method and before the closing parenthesis, invoke the **Complete** method on the **message** parameter, as shown in the following code:

  ```
  message.Complete();
  ```

1. At the end of the **AbandonMessage** method and before the closing parenthesis, invoke the **Abandon** method on the **message** parameter, as shown below:

  ```
  message.Abandon();
  ```

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** folder.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

1. Double-click the **WorkerRole.cs** file.

1. Locate and replace the line of code creating the **TableStorageQueueHelper**:

  ```
  var queueHelper = new TableStorageQueueHelper();
  ```

  with a line creating a new instance of the **ServiceBusQueueHelper**

  ```
  var queueHelper = new ServiceBusQueueHelper();
  ```

#### Task 2: Update administration application to add requests to the queue

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Administration** folder and then expand the **Contoso.Events.Management** project.

1. Double-click the **Web.config** file.

1. Locate the **appSettings** element.

1. Locate the **add** element with the key **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString**.

1. Replace the value with your previously recorded connection string.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** folder.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.

1. Double-click the **SignInSheetViewModel.cs** file.

1. In the constructor, locate the following line of code:

  ```
  GenerateSignInSheetTableStorage(context, eventItem, messageString);
  ```

1. Replace the above line of code with the following line of code:

  ```
  GenerateSignInSheetServiceBus(context, eventItem, message);
  ```

1. At the beginning of the **GenerateSignInSheetServiceBus** method and after the opening parenthesis, create a **QueueClient** instance by using the connection string, as shown in the following code:

	```
	QueueClient client = QueueClient.CreateFromConnectionString(serviceBusConnectionString, signInQueueName);
	```

1. After the above code, create a new instance of the **BrokeredMessage** class by passing in the **QueueMessage** message into the constructor, as shown in the following code:

	```
	BrokeredMessage queueMessage = new BrokeredMessage(message);
	```

1. Invoke the **Send** method of the *QueueClient* variable by using the **BrokeredMessage** as the parameter:

	```
	client.Send(queueMessage);
	```

#### Task 3: Debug and verify the application

1. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.

1. In the notification area, click the arrow to view the running application.

1. Locate the **IIS Express** icon, and then right-click the icon.

1. Point to the **Contoso.Events.Management** option under the **View Sites** header, and then click the URL under **Browse Applications**.

1. Point to the **Contoso.Events.Web** option under the **View Sites** header, and then click the URL under **Browse Applications**.

1. On the home page for the **Administration** web application, click the **Events** button to view the list of events.

1. Click the **Sign-In Sheet** button for any event in the list.

1. View the sign-in page which notifies you that the sign-in sheet is being generated with the message:

**Sign-In Document Generation in Progress**.

1. Wait for one minute for the worker role to receive the queue message.

1. Verify that the application temporarily pauses execution at the breakpoint.

1. Press F5 to resume execution of the application

1. Wait for one minute, and then refresh the sign-in sheet page.

1. Click **Sign-In Sheet** to download the sign-in sheet from the server.

1. Close the **Internet Explorer** window.

1. Close the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

> **Results:** After completing this exercise, you will have created and consumed messages from Service Bus Queues.

## Exercise 4: Using Service Bus Relay to Connect a WCF Service and Client[s]

#### Task 1: Test the existing WCF service by using a console application

1.  On the Start screen, click **Desktop**.

1. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

1. In the Libraries window, go to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Relay\\Contoso.Events**, and then double-click **Contoso.Events.sln.**

1. On the Start screen, click **Desktop**.

1. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

1. In the Libraries window, go to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\ Labfiles\\Starter\\Relay\\Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client**, and then double-click **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client.sln.**

1. On the desktop, click the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **On-Premise** folder, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Lodging** project, and then click **Set as Startup Project**.

1. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.

1. You will see a prompt indicating that the WCF service does not have any metadata and inquiring whether or not you wish to exit the debugging process. Click **No**.

1. Minimize **WCF Test Client**.

1. On the desktop, click the **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client** **– Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

1. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.

1. Verify that the four hotel names are listed.

1. Press any key in the console window to close the window.

1. On the desktop, click the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

1. On the **Debug** menu, click **Stop Debugging**.

#### Task 2: Modify the WCF service endpoints to use Service Bus relay

1.  On the desktop, click the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **On-Premise** folder.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Lodging** project.

1. Double-click the **App.config** file.

1. Locate the **system.serviceModel** XML element.

1. Locate the **services** child XML element.

1. Locate the first **endpoint** child XML element with a **contract** value of **Contoso.Events.Models.ILodgingService**.

1. Replace the value of the **binding** attribute with the value: **netTcpRelayBinding**.

1. Locate the first **endpoint** child XML element with a **contract** value of **Contoso.Events.Models.ILodgingService**.

1. Replace the value of the **address** attribute with the value: **sb://**.

1. Append the **address** attribute’s value with the name of your namespace.

1. Append the **address** attribute’s value with the value: **.servicebus.windows.net/lodging**.

1. Locate the **system.serviceModel** XML element.

1. Locate the **behaviors** child XML element.

1. Locate the **endpointBehaviors** child XML element.

1. Locate the first **behavior** child XML element with a **name** value of **ServiceBusRelayBehavior**, as shown in the following code:

&lt;behavior name="ServiceBusRelayBehavior"&gt;

&lt;/behavior&gt;

1. Within the tags of the **behavior** element, add a **transportClientEndpointBehavior** element, as shown in the following code:

&lt;transportClientEndpointBehavior&gt;

&lt;/transportClientEndpointBehavior&gt;

1. Within the tags of the **transportClientEndpointBehavior** element, add a **tokenProvider** element, as shown in the following code:

&lt;tokenProvider&gt;

&lt;/tokenProvider&gt;

1. Within the tags of the **tokenProvider** element, add a **sharedAccessSignature** element.

&lt;sharedAccessSignature keyName="[keyName]" key="[key]" /&gt;

1. Within the **sharedAccessSignature** element,

1. Remove the value of the **keyName** attribute.

1. Replace the value of the **keyName** attribute with the **SharedAccessKeyName** value from your previously recorded Service Bus connection string.

1. Within the **sharedAccessSignature** element, remove the value of the **key** attribute.

1. Replace the value of the **key** attribute with the **SharedAccessKey** value from your previously recorded Service Bus connection string.

  > **Note:** For example your connection string may be: Endpoint=sb://contoso.servicebus.windows.net/; SharedAccessKeyName=RootManageSharedAccessKey; SharedAccessKey=ABC123/J3y+tk=<span id="List_72" class="anchor"></span>Your **keyName** value would be “*RootManageSharedAccessKey*” and your **key** value would be “*ABC123/J3y+tk=”*.** **

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **On-Premise** solution folder, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Lodging** project, and then click **Set as Startup Project**.

1. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.

1. You will see a prompt indicating that the WCF service does not have any metadata and inquiring whether or not you wish to exit the debugging process. Click **No**.

1. Minimize, but do not close, the **WCF Test Client** application.

#### Task 3: Test the relayed WCF service by using a console application

1.  On your desktop, click the **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client** project.

1. Double-click the **Program.cs** file.

1. Locate the method with the following signature:

1. private static IEnumerable&lt;Hotel&gt; GetHotels()

1. Remove the line that creates a Uri by using a static string, as shown in the following code:

	```
	Uri serviceUri = new Uri("net.tcp://localhost:8000/lodging", UriKind.Absolute);
	```

1. Replace the line with a line of code that creates a Uri by invoking the static method **ServiceBusEnvironment.CreateServiceUri** with the protocol, namespace, and relative name as its parameters, as shown in the following code:

	```
	Uri serviceUri = ServiceBusEnvironment.CreateServiceUri("sb", "[namespace]", "lodging");
	```

1. On the previous line of code, update the parameters for the **CreateServiceUri** method by replacing the **“[*namespace*]”** string with your Service Bus namespace.

1. Remove the following line:

1. new NetTcpBinding(),

1. Replace the line with a line of code that creates a new instance of the **NetTcpRelayBinding** class:

1. new NetTcpRelayBinding(),

1. On the next line after the **ChannelFactory&lt;ILodgingService**&gt; instance is created, create an instance of the **TransportClientEndpointBehavior** class:

	```
	TransportClientEndpointBehavior endpointBehavior = new TransportClientEndpointBehavior();
	```

1. On the next line, set the *TransportClientEndpointBehavior* variable’s **TokenProvider** property to the result of an invocation of the \*\*TokenProvider.

1. CreateSharedSecretTokenProvider\*\* static method:

	```
	endpointBehavior.TokenProvider = TokenProvider.CreateSharedAccessSignatureTokenProvider("[keyName]", "[key]");
	```

1. On the previous line of code, update the parameters for the **CreateSharedSecretTokenProvider** method by replacing the **“[key]”** string with the **SharedAccessKey** value of your previously recorded Service Bus connection string.

1. On the previous line of code, update the parameters for the **CreateSharedSecretTokenProvider** method by replacing the **“[keyName]”** string with the **SharedAccessKeyName** value of your previously recorded Service Bus connection string.

1. Add the new instance of the **TransportClientEndpointBehavior** to the **EndpointBehaviors** collection property of the **cf.Endpoint** variable:

	```
	cf.Endpoint.EndpointBehaviors.Add(endpointBehavior);
	```

1. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.

1. Verify that the hotels are listed.

1. Press any key in the console window to close the window.

#### Task 4: Update the cloud web application to connect to the relayed WCF service

1.  Locate the **Program.cs** file in the **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client** project.

1. Locate the method with the following signature.

1. private static IEnumerable&lt;Hotel&gt; GetHotels()

1. Select the method signature and body.

1. Right-click the **selection**, and then click **Copy** to copy the entire method.

1. On the desktop, click the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

1. On the **Debug** menu, click **Stop Debugging**.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** folder.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events. ViewModels** project.

1. Double-click the **HotelsViewModel.cs** file.

1. Locate the method with the following signature:

1. private static IEnumerable&lt;Hotel&gt; GetHotels()

1. Select the entire method signature and body.

1. Right-click the selection, and then click **Paste** to paste the entire method.

#### Task 5: Debug the cloud web application

1.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events** solution, and then click **Properties**.

1. In the **Solution ‘Contoso.Events’ Property Pages** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. Make sure that **CommonProperties =&gt; Startup Project** is selected in the navigation menu on the left side.

  a. Select **Multiple startup projects**.

  a. For **Contoso.Events.Web**, set the **Action** to **Start without debugging**.

  a. For **Contoso.Events.Lodging**, set the **Action** to **Start without debugging**.

  a. For **Contoso.Events.Management**, set the **Action** to **None**.

  a. Ensure that all the remaining projects have their **Action** set to **None**.

  a. Click **OK**.

1. On the Start screen, type **Azure Storage Emulator**.

1. Click the **Windows Azure Storage Emulator – v4.2** tile.

1. Switch to the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation project**, point to **Debug**, and then click **Start New Instance**.

1. Wait for the debug process to complete and for the console window to close.

1. Close the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** application.

1. On the Start screen, locate the **Visual Studio 2015** tile, right-click, and then select **Run as Administrator**.

  > **Note:** You might have to use the down arrow to locate the Visual Studio 2015 tile on your Start screen. After you start the application in the administrator context, you might see the UAC prompt. Select **Yes** to continue.

1. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.

1. In the **Open Project** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. Go to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Relay\\Contoso.Events**.

  a. Click the **Contoso.Events** Microsoft Visual Studio Solution file.

  a. Click **Open**.

1. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start without Debugging**.

1. You will see a prompt indicating that the WCF service does not have any metadata and inquiring whether or not you wish to exit the debugging process. Click **No**.

1. Minimize, but do not close, the **WCF Test Client** application.

1. On the home page of the web application, click any event.

1. On the event details page, click **Register Now**.

1. Complete the Registration form with any arbitrary values.

1. Click **Submit**.

1. Observe that the **Registration Confirmation** web page shows a list of hotels.

1. Close the **Internet Explorer** application.

1. Close the **Microsoft Visual Studio** applications.

1. Close the **Windows Azure Storage Emulator** command prompt.

> **Results:** After completing this exercise, you will have connected existing WCF applications to clients by using Service Bus relay.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

1. This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
