# Module 3: Hosting Web Applications on the Azure Platform

# Lab: Creating an ASP.NET Website Using an Azure Web App

## Exercise 1: Creating an Azure Website

#### Task 1: Create a Website instance by using the Management Portal

1.  On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2.  Go to _[https://manage.windowsazure.com](https://manage.windowsazure.com)_.

3.  In the email address box, type the email address of your Microsoft account.

4.  In the password box, type the password for your Microsoft account.

5.  Click **Sign In**.

> **Note:** If this is your first time logging in to the Management Portal, you may be prompted with a “Welcome” dialog. You can safely close this dialog and continue.

1.  In the navigation pane on the left side of the screen, click **Web App**.

2.  Click **+New** button at the lower–left corner of the screen.

3.  Click **Custom Create**.

4.  In the form that displays, perform the following steps:

    a. In the **App Service Plan** list, select **Create New App Service Plan**.

    b. In the **Region** list, select the region that is closest to your location.

    c. In the **URL** dialog box, create a unique name for your website.

    d. In the **Database** list, select **Create a free SQL database**.

    e. In the **DB Connection String Name** box, type **EventsContextConnectionString**.

    f. Click the next arrow button.

    g. In the **Name** box, type **EventsContextDB**.

    h. In the **Server** box, click **New SQL database server**.

    i. In the **Server Login Name** dialog box, create a user name (**testuser**) for your administrative SQL user.

    j. In the **Server Login Password** and **Confirm Password** dialog boxes, create a password (**TestPa\$\$w0rd**) for your administrative SQL user.

    k. Click the check mark button to create your Website and SQL database.

#### Task 2: Go to the newly created Website's placeholder page

> **Note:** Creating a Website is typically very fast, but you have to wait for the Website to be created and running before you can go to the Website. When the Website is running, its status displays as Running in the **Websites** list.

1.  In the navigation page on the left side, click **Websites**.

2.  In the **Websites** list, click the Website that you just created.

3.  Click the **Dashboard** tab at the top of the screen.

4.  Locate the **Quick Glance** section on the right side of the dashboard.

5.  Under the **Url** header, click the hyperlink to the Website.

6.  Verify that the Website exists.

7.  Close the tab displaying the website.

> **Results:** After completing this exercise, you will have used the Management Portal to create Website instances. S
>
> ## Exercise 2: Deploying an ASP.NET Web Application to an Azure Website

#### Task 1: Open an existing ASP.NET web application project with Visual Studio 2015

1.  On the Start screen, click the **Desktop** tile.

2.  On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

3.  In the Libraries window, go to **Allfiles (F):\Mod03\Labfiles\Starter\Contoso.Events**, and then double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.

4.  If you get a prompt to install **SQL Server 2012 Express LocalDB**, then click on **Microsoft Download Center** link and install **SqlLocalDB.MSI** by following instructions.

    a. Click on **Download** button.

    b. Select **ENU\x64\SqlLocalDB.MSI** and click **Install**.

    c. **Run** the downloaded MSI.

    d. Click **Next** on the welcome screen.

    e. Select **I accept** on license screen and click **Next**.

    f. Click **Install**.

    g. Wait for installation to succeed and click **Finish**

    h. Close Visual Studio and open the **Contoso.Events.sln** once again.

5.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Management** project, and then click **Set as Startup Project**.

6.  On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.

    > **Note:** If this is the first time you are creating a build for this solution, NuGet will implicitly restore any missing packages. You do not have to manually restore the missing packages.

7.  On the home page of the web application, verify that a list of three events displays under the **Latest 3 Events** header.

8.  Click **Events** in the navigation bar at the top of the webpage.

9.  Verify that the Events page displays a list of events.

10.  Close the tab displaying the Website.

#### Task 2: Download the publish profile for the Azure Website

1.  On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2.  Go to [_https://manage.windowsazure.com_](https://manage.windowsazure.com).

3.  In the email address box, type the email address of your Microsoft account.

4.  In the password box, type the password for your Microsoft account.

5.  Click **Sign In**

6.  In the **Websites** list, click the Website that you just created.

7.  Click the **Dashboard** tab.

8.  Locate the **Quick Glance** section on the right side of the dashboard.

9.  Click **Download the publish profile**.

10.  In the download dialog box, click the arrow to the right of the **Save** button, and then click **Save As**.

11.  In the **Save As** dialog box, go to **Allfiles (F):\Mod03\Labfiles**, and then click **Save**.

#### Task 3: Publish the ASP.NET web application to the Azure Website

1.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio window, right-click **Contoso.Events.Management**, and then click **Publish**.

2.  In the Publish Web window, click **Import**.

3.  In the **Import from a publish profile file** dialog box, click **Browse**.

4.  In the Libraries window, go to **Allfiles (F):\Mod03\Labfiles**, and then double-click your previously saved publish profile.

5.  Click **OK**.

6.  Verify that the **Site Name** dialog box matches your Website’s name.

7.  Click **Publish**.

#### Task 4: Verify that the web application is successfully published

> **Note:** If you see the placeholder page that displayed in Exercise 1 - Task 2, it might mean that client-side caching is occurring. You can always force refresh your browser and cache by pressing Ctrl+F5.

1.  On the home page of the web application, verify that a list of three events displays under the **Latest 3 Events** header.

2.  Click **Events** in the navigation bar at the top of the webpage.

3.  Verify that the **Events** page displays a list of events.

4.  Close the tab displaying the Website.

> **Results:** After completing this exercise, you will have used a publish profile to publish web applications directly to a Website.

## Exercise 3: Configuring an Azure Website

#### Task 1: Implement logic to read a configuration setting from app settings

1.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio window, expand the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.

2.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane, double-click **EventsListViewModel.cs**.

3.  **Locate** the following code in line 20 of EventsListViewModel.cs:

    **this.EventCount = 3;**

4.  **Replace** the line of code with the following code:

    **this.EventCount = Int32.Parse(ConfigurationManager.AppSettings["EventsListViewModel.EventCount"]);**

5.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio window, expand the **Contoso.Events.Management** project.

6.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane, double-click **Web.config**.

7.  In the **appSettings** element, in line 14, add the following line of code:

    **&lt;add value="5" \="" key="EventsListViewModel.EventCount"></add>**

8.  On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**.

9.  On the home page of the web application, verify that a list of five events displays under the **Latest 5 Events** header.

10.  Close the tab displaying the Website.

#### Task 2: Publish web application to the Azure Website

1.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio window, right-click **Contoso.Events.Management**, and then click **Publish**.

2.  Click **Publish**.

3.  On the home page of the web application, verify that a list of five events displays under the **Latest 5 Events** header.

4.  Close the tab displaying the Website.

#### Task 3: Modify the app settings in the Management Portal

1.  On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2.  Go to [_https://manage.windowsazure.com_](https://manage.windowsazure.com).

3.  In the email address box, type the email address of your Microsoft account.

4.  In the password box, type the password for your Microsoft account.

5.  Click **Sign In**.

6.  In the **Websites** list, click the website that you just created.

7.  Click the **Configure** tab.

8.  Scroll down to the **App Settings** section.

9.  In the **Key** box, type **EventsListViewModel.EventCount**.

10.  In the **Value** box, type **2**.

11.  Click **Save**.

    > **Note:** After you update the configuration settings, you must wait for a few seconds to see the configuration changes. You will know that the configuration changes are applied when the **Configure** tab is editable again.

#### Task 4: Verify that the app settings are successfully updated

1.  Click the **Dashboard** tab at the top of the screen.

2.  Locate the **Quick Glance** section on the right side of the dashboard.

3.  Under the **Site Url** header, click the hyperlink to the website.

4.  On the home page of the web application, verify that a list of two events displays under the **Latest 2 Events** header.

5.  Close the tab displaying the Website.

6.  Close the **Internet Explorer** application.

7.  Close the **Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio** application.

> **Results:** After completing this exercise, you will have configured custom app settings by using a Web.config file and the Management Portal.

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **_not_** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
