# Module 1: Overview of the Microsoft Azure Platform

# Lab: Exploring the Azure Portal

### Scenario

You are designated by your team as the individual who will explore the Azure Portal and then train the other team members on how to use the portal. You decided to customize a few features of the portal and create a new service instance.

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

  * Sign in to the Azure Portal.

  * Customize your Dashboard.

  * Identify a blade.

  * Identify a journey.

  * Identify a journey part.

  * Close a journey without persisting your changes.

### Lab Setup

**Estimated Time: 15 minutes**

For this lab, you will use the available host machine. Before you begin this lab, you must complete the following step:

1. Verify that you received the credentials to sign in to the Azure portal from you training provider. You will use these credentials and the Azure account throughout the labs in this course.

## Exercise 1: Signing in to the Azure Portal

### Scenario

You will start by signing in to the Azure Portal by using the new portal URL.
The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal.

#### Task 1: Sign in to the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com).

2. If this is your first time logging in to the Azure portal, you will see a dialog with a tour of the portal. Click Get Started.

> **Results:** After completing this exercise, you will have signed in to the Azure Portal.

## Exercise 2: Customizing the Azure Portal

### Scenario

You want to practice customizing the Dashboard based on the needs of your team. You also want to walk through a journey.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

  1. Customize the Dashboard.

  2. View a blade.

  3. Begin a journey.

#### Task 1: Customize the Dashboard

1. View the **Customization** mode of the Dashboard.

2. Add a new **Service Health** tile using the **2x4** size.

4. Add a new **Markdown** tile using the following content:

  ```
  # Account Details:
  ## Corporate Account
  Account **&#35;&#52;&#55;&#57;** is managed by the ``IT department``.
  > &copy;2016
  ```

3. Close the Customization mode of the Dashboard.

#### Task 2: View a blade

1. Open the **More services** panel, and then click the **Subscriptions** option.

1. View the **Subscriptions** blade.

1. Click the **Settings** button in the top right corner of the portal.

1. View the **Portal Settings** blade.

#### Task 3: Begin a journey

1. Open the **New** panel, and then click **See all**.

2. In the **Marketplace** blade, select the **Web + Mobile** group, and then create a new instance using the **ASP.NET Starter Web App** template.

3. In the **ASP.NET Starter Web App** journey, view the journey part for creating a new **App Service Plan**.

4. Close the **ASP.NET Starter Web App** blade to view the warning message that notifies you about losing the changes you made in the journey or a journey part.

> **Results:** After completing this exercise, you will have viewed blades, journeys, and journey parts.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.  
This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.  
