#Module 3: Hosting Web Applications on the Azure Platform



#Lab: Creating an ASP.NET Website by Using Azure Web Apps



##Exercise 1:	Creating an Azure Web App



####Task 1:	Create a Web App instance by using the Azure Portal



1. On the Start screen, click the
**Internet Explorer** tile.

2. Go to
[*https://portal.azure.com*](https://portal.azure.com).

3. In the email address box, type 
the email address of your Microsoft account.

4. In the password box, type the
 password for your Microsoft account.

5. Click **Sign In**.

 >  **Note:** If this is your first time logging in to the Azure Portal, you may be prompted with a “Welcome” dialog. You can safely close this dialog and continue.

6. In the navigation pane on the left side of the screen, click **+ New**.

7. In the search input box that appears, type **Web App + SQL** and press **Enter**.

8. In the **Everything** blade, click **Web App + SQL** and then click **Create**.

9. In the **Web app** blade that displays,
perform the following steps:

 a. In the **App name** input box,
 create a unique name for your app service like **webapp20532[*Your name here*]**.

 b. In the **Resource group** input box,
 create a new resource group called **AppService20532RG**.

 c. Click **App Service Plan** and in the next blade choose **Create New**.

 d. In the **App Service plan** input box,
 enter **appserviceplan20532**.

 e. In the **Location** list, select 
the region that is closest to your location.

 f. Click the **Pricing Tier** list, then click **view all** and choose **D1 (Shared)**.

 g. Click **OK** to close the **App service** blade and return to the **Web app** blade.

 h. Click **SQL Database**.

 i. Click **Create a new database**.

 j. In the **Name** box, type **EventsContextDB**.

 k. In the **Pricing tier**, leave it at **S0 Standard**.

 l. Click **Target server**.

 m. Click **Create a new server**.

 n. In the **Server name** box, create a unique name like **sqlserver20532[Your Name Here]**.

 o. In the **Server admin login**
dialog box, create a user name (**testuser**) for your administrative SQL user.

 p. In the **Password** and **Confirm Password** dialog boxes, create a password (**TestPa$$w0rd**) for
 your administrative SQL user.

 q. Choose the sae **Location** that you chose for the app service plan.

 r. Click the **Select** button at the bottom of the blade.

 s. Click the **Select** button again at the bottom of the blade.

 t. Click **Create**.

####Task 2:	Go to the newly created web app's placeholder page

>  **Note:** Creating a web app is typically very
 fast, but you have to wait for the web app to be created and running
 before you can go to the web app. When the web app is running, its
 status displays as Running in the **App Services** list.

1.  In the navigation page on the left side, click **App Services**.

2. In the **App Services** list, click 
the web app that you just created.

3. Under the **Url** header in the upper part of the blade,
click the hyperlink to the web app.

4. Verify that the web app exists.

5. Close the tab displaying the web app.

>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the 
Azure Portal to create web app instances.



##Exercise 2:	Deploying an ASP.NET Web Application to an Azure Web App



####Task 1:	Open an existing ASP.NET web application project with Visual Studio 2015



1.  On the Start screen, click
 the **Desktop** tile.

2. On the taskbar, click the
**File Explorer** icon.


3. In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**, and then 
double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.

4. In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Management** project, and then
 click **Set as Startup Project**.


5. On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.


 >  **Note:** If this is the first time you are
 creating a build for this solution, NuGet will implicitly restore any
 missing packages. You do not have to manually restore the missing
 packages.

6. On the home page of the web 
application, verify that a list of three events displays under the
**Latest 3 Events** header.


7. Click **Events** in the
 navigation bar at the top of the webpage.


8. Verify that the Events page
 displays a list of events.


9. Close the tab displaying the
web app.



####Task 2:	Download the publish profile for the Azure Web App

1.  On the Start screen, click
 the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2. Go to
[*https://portal.azure.com*](https://portal.azure.com).


3. In the email address box, type
 the email address of your Microsoft account.


4. In the password box, type the
 password for your Microsoft account.


5. Click **Sign In**

6. In the **App Services** list, click 
the web app that you just created.

7. Click **Download the publish
profile** button in the upper portion of the blade.

8. In the download dialog box,
click the arrow to the right of the **Save** button, and then click
**Save As**.

9. In the **Save As** dialog box,
go to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles**, and then click **Save**.


####Task 3:	Publish the ASP.NET web application to the Azure Web App


1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio
 window, right-click **Contoso.Events.Management**, and then click
 **Publish**.

2. In the Publish Web window,
click **Import**.

3. In the **Import from a publish
profile file** dialog box, click **Browse**.

4. In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod03\\Labfiles**, and then double-click your 
previously saved publish profile.

5. Click **OK**.

6. Verify that the **Site Name**
dialog box matches your Web App’s name.

7. Click **Publish**.

####Task 4: Verify that the web application is successfully published

>  **Note:** If you see the placeholder page that
 displayed in Exercise 1 - Task 2, it might mean that client-side
 caching is occurring. You can always force refresh your browser and
 cache by pressing Ctrl+F5.

1.  On the home page of the web
 application, verify that a list of three events displays under the
 **Latest 3 Events** header.

2. Click **Events** in the 
navigation bar at the top of the webpage.

3. Verify that the **Events** page 
displays a list of events.

4. Close the tab displaying the
 web app.

>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used a 
publish profile to publish web applications directly to a web app.


##Exercise 3:	Configuring an Azure Web App



####Task 1:	Implement logic to read a configuration setting from app settings

1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio
 window, expand the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.


2. In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, double-click **EventsListViewModel.cs**.


3. **Locate** the following code in
line 20 of EventsListViewModel.cs:

 **this.EventCount = 3;**


4. **Replace** the line of code with
the following code:

 **this.EventCount =
Int32.Parse(ConfigurationManager.AppSettings["EventsListViewModel.EventCount"]);**

5. In the **Solution Explorer**
pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio window, expand the
**Contoso.Events.Management** project.

6. In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, double-click **Web.config**.

7. In the **appSettings** element,
in line 14, add the following line of code:

 **\<add key="EventsListViewModel.EventCount" value="5" /\>**

8. On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.

9. On the home page of the web
 application, verify that a list of five events displays under the
**Latest 5 Events** header.

10. Close the tab displaying the
 Web App.

####Task 2:	Publish web application to the Azure Web App

1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio
 window, right-click **Contoso.Events.Management**, and then click
 **Publish**.


2. Click **Publish**.


3. On the home page of the web
 application, verify that a list of five events displays under the
**Latest 5 Events** header.


4. Close the tab displaying the
 Web App.



####Task 3:	Modify the app settings in the Azure Portal



1.  On the Start screen, click
 the **Internet Explorer** tile.


2. Go to
[*https://portal.azure.com*](https://portal.azure.com).


3. In the email address box, type
 the email address of your Microsoft account.


4. In the password box, type the 
password for your Microsoft account.


5. Click **Sign In**. 

6. In the
**App Services** list, click the web app that you just created.

7. Click the **Application Settings** link in the **Settings** blade.

8. Scroll down to the **App
Settings** section.

9. In the **Key** box, type
**EventsListViewModel.EventCount**.

10. In the **Value** box, type
**2**.

11. Click **Save**.


 >  **Note:** After you update the configuration
 settings, you must wait for a few seconds to see the configuration
 changes. You will know that the configuration changes are applied when
 the **Configure** tab is editable again.



####Task 4:	Verify that the app settings are successfully updated 



1. Under the **Site Url** header,
click the hyperlink to the Web App.


2. On the home page of the web
 app, verify that a list of two events displays under the
**Latest 2 Events** header.


3. Close the tab displaying the 
web app.


4. Close the **Internet Explorer**
application.


5. Close the **Contoso.Events -
Microsoft Visual Studio** application.

>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured 
custom app settings by using a Web.config file and the Azure
Portal.





©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
 document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
 document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
 intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
 this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may 
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are 
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
 intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.
