#Module 10: Managing Infrastructure in Azure



#Lab: Managing Multiple Virtual Machines in a Virtual Network



##Exercise 1:	Configuring the Existing Virtual Network



####Task 1: Sign in to the Azure Management Portal 


Open the **Internet Explorer**
application.


Go to
<https://manage.windowsazure.com>.


In the email address box, type 
the email address of your Microsoft account.


Click **Continue**.


In the password box, type the 
password for your Microsoft account.


Click **Sign In**.



####Task 2:	Configure point-to-site connectivity



1.  In the navigation pane on
 the left side of the screen, click **Virtual Networks**.


In the **Virtual Network**
list, click the Virtual Network with the suffix **Dev20532**.


Click the **Configure** tab.


Under the **point-to-site
connectivity** section, select **Configure point-to-site connectivity**.


In the **Address Space** list,
configure the following values:



In the Starting IP box, type
172.16.0.0


From the CIDR (Address Count)
box, select /29 (6).


In the **virtual network
address spaces** section, click **add gateway subnet**.


At the bottom of the page,
click **Save**.


A confirmation dialog will 
appear warning you about a potential connectivity disruption. Click the
**YES** button to continue.



>
  **Note:** Updating Virtual Network configuration can take as long as
 15 minutes. Refresh your browser periodically to check the status of
 the update. ** **



####Task 3:	Create the Gateway

1.  Click the **Dashboard**
 tab.


Click **Create Gateway** at 
the bottom of the page.


A confirmation dialog will
 confirm your intention to create a gateway for the virtual network.

Click the **YES** button to continue.



>
  **Note:** Gateway creation can take as long as 15 minutes. Refresh
 your browser periodically to check the status of your new gateway. You
 can see that the gateway is created when the dashboard shows the
 **Gateway IP Address**. You can also optionally continue with the
 remainder of the lab while waiting for the gateway to be created.** **



##Exercise 2:	Creating the Database Virtual Machine



####Task 1:	Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal

1.  Open the **Internet
 Explorer** application.


Go to
<https://portal.azure.com>.


In the email address box, type 
the email address of your Microsoft account.


Click **Continue**.


In the password box, type the 
password for your Microsoft account.


Click **Sign In**.



####Task 2:	Create the SQL Server 2014 Standard virtual machine


1.  At the top-left corner
    of the screen, click **New**.


2.  In the **New** blade that
    displays, click the **Everything** link.


3.  In the **Marketplace** blade 
    that displays, click the **Virtual Machines** option.


4.  In the **Virtual Machines**
    blade that displays, locate the **Database servers** section and click
   the **SQL Server** option.


4.  In the **SQL Server** blade
    that displays, click the **SQL Server 2014 Standard on Windows Server
    2012 R2** option.


5.  In the **SQL Server 2014
    Standard on Windows Server 2012 R2** blade that displays, Select a deployment mode to **Classic**
6.  click the
     **Create** button.

7. In the **Create VM** blade 
    that displays, perform the following steps:



 a.  In the **Host Name** box, type **db20532** followed by your name.


 b.  In the **User Name** box, type
     **testuser**.


 c.  In the **Password** box, type
     **TestPa\$\$w0rd**.


 d.  Click **Pricing Tier**.


     i.  In the **Choose your pricing Tiers** blade, click **View all**.


     ii.  Select **A2 Standard**.
     
     iii. Click **Select**.


8.  Click **Optional
       Configuration**.


   a.  In the **Optional Config**
       blade, click **Network**.


      i. In the **Network** blade,
        click **Virtual Network**.


       ii.  In the **Virtual Network**
         blade, select the **Dev20532** network.


       iii.   In the **Network** blade,
           click **OK**.


   b. In the **Optional Config**
      blade, click **Storage Account**.


   c. In the **Storage account**
      blade, select the storage account, **stor20532[*Your Name Here*]**.


   d.  In the **Optional Config**
   blade, click **OK**.


9.  Click **Create** to create the
    virtual machine by using your specified configuration.


10.  Select the newly created 
     virtual machine on your Startboard.


11.  Click the **Settings** tile.


12.  In the **Settings** blade that
     displays, click the **Properties** option.


13.  In the **Properties** blade 
     that displays, locate and record the value of the **IP Address**
     field.


####Task 3:	Connect to the new database virtual machine

1.  Click the **db20532[*Your
    Name Here*]** blade.


2.  Click **Connect** at the top 
    of the **db20532[*Your Name Here*]** blade.


3.  In the **Internet Explorer**
    download dialog box, click **Open**.


4.  In the **Remote Desktop
    Connection** dialog box, perform the following steps:



 a.  Click **Don’t ask me again
     for connections to this computer** to prevent this dialog from displaying again.

 b.  Click **Connect**.


 c.  In the **Windows Security**
     dialog box, perform the following steps:



  i. In the **User name** box,
     type **testuser**.


  ii. In the **Password** box, type
     **TestPa\$\$w0rd**.


  iii. Click **OK**.


e.  In the **Remote Desktop
    Connection** dialog box, perform the following steps:



  i.  Verify that the remote
   certificate name matches the name of your virtual machine.


  ii.  Click **Don’t ask me again for
   connections to this computer** to prevent this dialog box from
   displaying again.

  iii.  Click **Yes**.


f.  When you are prompted to allow
    your network connection to discover external devices, click **No**.



####Task 4:	Add a rule to the Windows Firewall for SQL Server



1.  On the Start screen, click
    the down arrow at the bottom-left corner.


2.  Find and click the **Run**
    application.


3.  In the **Run** dialog box, 
    perform the following steps:



  a.  In the **Open** box, type
      **WF.msc**.


  b.  Click **OK** to open Windows 
      Firewall.


4.  In the Windows Firewall with 
     Advanced Security window, perform the following steps:



 a.  Right-click **Inbound
     Rules**, and then click **New Rule**.


 b.  Click **Port**.


 c.  Click **Next**.


 d. Click **TCP**.


 e.  Click **Specific local ports**.


 f.  In the **Specific local
     ports:** box, type **1433**.


 g.  Click **Next**.


 h.  Click **Allow the connection**.


 i.  Click **Next**.


 j.  Ensure that the **Domain**,
     **Private**, and **Public** check boxes are all selected.


 k.  Click **Next**.


 l.  In the **Name** box, type **SQL
     Inbound**.       


 m.  Click **Finish**.


5.  Close the Windows Firewall with 
    Advanced Security window.



####Task 5:	Enable Mixed Mode Authentication for SQL Server

1.  On the Start screen, click
    the down arrow at the bottom-left corner.


2.  Search for and click the **SQL
    Server 2014 Management Studio** tile.


3.  In the **Connect to Server**
    dialog box, perform the following steps:



 a.  In the **Server name** box, type **.** (period).


 b. Click **Connect**.


4.  Right-click the **SQL Server**
    node that is at the top of the **Object Explorer** pane, and then click
    **Properties**.


5.  In the **Server Properties**
    dialog box, perform the following steps:



 a.  Click the **Security** page.


 b.  In the **Server
     authentication** section, select **SQL Server and Windows Authentication
      mode**.


 c.  Click **OK**.


 e.  In the **Microsoft SQL Server
     Management Studio** dialog box, click **OK**.


6.  Right-click the **SQL Server**
    node that is at the top of the **Object Explorer** pane, and then click
    **Restart**.


7.  In the **Microsoft SQL Server
    Management Studio** dialog box, click **Yes**.


8.  Right-click the **Security**
    node in the **Object Explorer** pane, point to **New**, and then click
    **Login**.


9.  In the **Login – New** dialog
    box, perform the following steps:



 a.  In the **Login name** box, type **dbuser**.


 b.  Click **SQL Server
    authentication**. 


 c.  In the **Password** box, type
     **TestPa$$w0rd**.


 d.  In the **Confirm Password**
     box, type **TestPa$$w0rd**.


 e.  Ensure the **Enforce password
     policy** check box is cleared.


 f.  Ensure the **Enforce password
     expiration** check box is cleared.


 g.  Ensure the **User must change
     password at next login** check box is unselected.


 h.  Click the **Server Roles**
     page.


 i.  Ensure the **public** serverrole check box is selected.


 j.  Ensure the **sysadmin** Server
     role check box is selected.


 k.  Click **OK** to create the new
     login.


10.  Right-click the **Databases**
     node in the **Object Explorer** pane, and then click **New Database**.


11.  In the **New Database** dialog 
   box, perform the following steps:



 a.  In the **Database name**
  box, type **Contoso.Test**.


 b.  Click **OK** to create the new
  database.


12.  Close the Microsoft SQL Server
     Management Studio window.


13.  Close the **Remote Desktop
     Connection** application.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, your will have a new 
virtual machine with SQL Server 2014 installed that can use mixed mode
 authentication when accessed by an external virtual machine.



##Exercise 3:	Creating the Azure Website Instance



####Task 1:	Create a Website instance


1. In left navigation  Click **App Services**.


2.  In the **App Services** blade that
    displays, click **Add**.


3.  In the **Web App** blade that 
    displays, perform the following steps:



   a.  In the **URL** dialog box,
    create a unique name for your website.
   
   b. Click **Resource group**
   
      i. In **Resource group** blade, select **Dev20532**
      
   c. In the **Website** blade, click
      **Create**.


4.  After the Website instance is
    created, the blade for it displays.


5.  Scroll down **Settings** and click the
     **Networking** tile.


6.  In the **Network**
blade that displays, perform the following steps:

  a. Click **Setup**

  a.  Under **Use an existing
   virtual network**, select **Dev20532**.


7. At the top of the blade, click
    **Browse**.


8.  Record the **URL** in the new 
    Internet Explorer **Microsoft Azure Website** tab.


9.  Switch to the **Microsoft
    Azure** tab.


10.  the button with three ellipses.


11.  At the top of the blade, click
     **Get Publish Profile**.


12.  In the download dialog box,
     click the arrow that is on the right side of the **Save** button, and 
     then click **Save As**.


13.  In the **Save As** dialog box,
     go to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod10\\Labfiles**, and then click **Save**.



####Task 2:	Deploy the Contoso.Events database test web application

1.  On the Start screen, click
    the **Desktop** tile.


2.  On the taskbar, click the
    **File Explorer** icon.


3.  In the Libraries window, go to
    **Allfiles (F):\\Mod10\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**, and then
     double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.


4.  In the **Solution Explorer**
    pane of the Contoso.Events - Microsoft Visual Studio window, right-click
    **Contoso.Events.Web**, and then click **Publish**.


5. In the Publish Web window,
   click **Import**.


  a.  In the **Import Publish
      Settings** dialog box, click **Browse**.


  b.  In the Libraries window, go to
      **Allfiles (F):\\Mod10\\Labfiles**, and then double-click your
      previously saved publish profile.


  c.  Click **OK**.


6.  Verify that the value of the
    **Site Name** dialog box matches your Website’s name.


7.  Click **Publish**.


>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created a 
Website in a virtual network and deploy a web application to the 
Website.



##Exercise 4:	Connecting the Test Application to the SQL Server Virtual Machine



####Task 1:	Retrieve your SQL Server virtual machine’s internal IP address

1.  Switch to Internet
    Explorer.


2.  In the navigation pane on the
    left side, click **Browse**.


3.  In the **Browse** blade that 
    displays, click **Virtual machines**.


4.  In the **Virtual machines(classic)**
    blade that displays, select the row for your virtual machine named
    **db20532[*Your Name Here*]**.


5.  In the **db20532[*Your Name
    Here*]** blade that displays, click the **Settings** tile.


6.  In the **Settings** blade that 
    displays, click the **Properties** option.


7.  In the **Properties** blade 
    that displays, record the value displayed in the **Private IP Address**
    field.


8.  Close the **Properties** blade
    by click the close (X) button at the top-right corner of the blade.



####Task 2:	Locally debug the Contoso.Events database test web application



1.  Switch to Visual Studio
 2015.


In the Solution Explorer pane,
right-click the Contoso.Events.Web project, and then click Set as
Startup Project.

On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.



>  **Note:** This web
 application references multiple **NuGet** packages. When you debug the
 solution, Visual Studio starts by building the solution. This triggers
 the **NuGet** automatic package restore capability.


**NuGet Automatic Package Restore**

http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=510175

On the home page of the web
application, in the **IP Address** box, enter the previously recorded 
internal IP address of the virtual machine running SQL Server.


Click **Verify**.


Verify that the **Events** page
 displays a list of events.


Close Internet Explorer.



####Task 3: Debug the Contoso.Events database test web application in Azure


1.  Switch to the **Internet
 Explorer** application.

Click the Home – Contoso.Events
tab.


On the home page of the web
 application, in the **IP Address** dialog box, enter the previously 
recorded **Private IP Address** of the virtual machine running SQL
Server.


Click **Verify**.


Verify that the **Events** page
 displays a list of events.


Close the **Visual Studio**
application.


Close the **Internet Explorer**
application.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the 
internal IP address of the database virtual machine in your virtual
 network to connect to SQL Server 2014.





©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this 
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
 document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any 
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use 
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
 this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
 change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
 for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is 
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.
