#Module 2: Establishing a Development Environment using Azure Virtual Machines

#Lab: Creating an Azure Virtual Machine for Development and Testing

###Scenario

Before you begin the process of migrating your application from an on premise server to Azure, you must create a development environment.
You have elected to use Azure to host a Windows Server 2012 R2 Virtual Machine and you discover that Azure has some virtual machine images 
pre-configured with Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition and the Azure SDK 2.9 for development use. In this development environment, 
you will install project files, the Office developer tools, and the Azure PowerShell module. Once complete, you will use this virtual machine for all remaining development tasks.

###Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

* Create a virtual network.

* Create a Storage instance.

* Create a virtual machine.

* Manage the virtual machine VHDs.

* Install development software on a virtual machine.

###Lab Setup

**Estimated Time: 90 minutes**

For this lab, you will use the available host machine. Before you begin this lab, you must complete the following steps:

  1. Verify that you received the credentials from your training provider to sign in to the Azure portal. You will use these credentials and the Azure account throughout the labs in this course.

##Exercise 1: Creating a Network and Resource Container

###Scenario

You want to create a virtual network that you can use for your new virtual machine. As part of creating the virtual network, you will also create a resource group.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal.

2. Create a virtual network and a resource group.

####Task 1:	Sign in to the Azure Portal

1. Sign in to the Azure Portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

2. Click **Get Started**.

####Task 2:	Create a virtual network and a resource group

1. View the list of virtual networks for your subscription.

2. Create a virtual network by using the following details:

  - Name: **Dev20532**

  - Location: **Select the region that is closest to your location**

  - Address Space CIDR block: **10.0.0.0/16**

  - Subnet name: **Apps**

  - Subnet CIDR block: **10.0.0.0/24**

  - New Resource Group: **Dev20532**

> **Results**:	After completing this exercise, you will have a new virtual network and resource group in Azure.

##Exercise 2: Creating a Development Virtual Machine

###Scenario

You need a new storage account that you will use while creating your virtual machine.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a storage account.

2. Create a virtual machine.

####Task 1:	Create a storage account

1. View the list of Storage instances for your subscription.

2. Create a Storage instance by using the following details:

  - Name: **stor20532[Your Name Here]**

  - Account kind: **General purpose**

  - Location: **Select the region that is closest to your location**

  - Pricing Tier: **Standard**

  - Replication: **Locally-redundant (LRS)**

  - Resource group: **Dev20532**

####Task 2:	Create a virtual machine

1. View the list of virtual machines for your subscription.

2. Click **Add** in the **Virtual Machines** blade and filter the choices
   by typing "Visual Studio Community 2015 Update 2".

3. Click on the result with the title
   "Visual Studio Community 2015 Update 2 with Universal Windows Tools and
    Azure SDK 2.9 on Windows Server 2012 R2".

4. Create the virtual machine by using the following details, leaving
   the other values as defaults:

  - Host Name: **vm20532[Your Name Here]**

  - User Name: **Student**

  - Password: **AzurePa$$w0rd**

  - Resource Group: **Dev20532**

  - Pricing Tier: **A3 Standard**

  - Storage Account: **stor20532[Your Name Here]**

  - Virtual Network: **Dev20532**

  - Subnet: **Apps**

5. After the virtual machine is done provisioning, attach a new data disk with
   the following settings:

  - Name: **vm20532-AllFiles**

  - Type: **Standard**

  - Size (GiB): **20**

  - Storage Account: **stor20532[Your Name Here]**

  - Host caching: **None**

6. On the Azure startboard, click on the **Resource Groups** link near the top-left of the page.

7. Click the **Dev20532** ressource group.

8. Find the **Public IP Address** and click it. It probably has a name like **vm20532[Your Name Here]**.

9. In the **Settings** blade for the public IP address that you just opened, click **Configuration**.

10. Fill in the **DNS name label (optional)** input box with **vm20532[Your Name Here]**.
    If it rejects this name, add some more characters at the end.
    **Write down this name for use later.**

11. Connect to the newly created virtual machine by using Remote Desktop.

> **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have a new virtual machine stored in a new storage account.

##Exercise 3:	Configuring the Virtual Machine for Development

###Scenario

Now that you have a new virtual machine, you decide to install the Office developer tools and the Azure PowerShell module.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an AllFiles drive.

2. Install OfficeToolsForVS2015

3. Import your Azure subscription.

4. Install Azure PowerShell Module.

####Task 1:	Create an AllFiles drive

1. If Server Manager is not already open, open **Server Manager**.

2. Disable **Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration**.

3. Initialize the new disk by using the Windows Disk Manager.

4. Format the new empty drive partition by using the following settings:

  - Drive Letter: **F**

  - Volume Label: **AllFiles**

  - Partition Style: **MBR (Master Boot Record)**

5. Download the **AllFiles** compressed folder from the GitHub website

  - (https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20532-DevelopingMicrosoftAzureSolutions/releases/latest)

6. Unblock the AllFiles compressed folder.

7. Extract the content of the AllFiles compressed folder to the drive F.

  - Extract target: **Allfiles** **(F):\\**

####Task 2: Install OfficeToolsForVS2015

1.  On the Start screen, click the Internet Explorer tile.

2.  In the Address bar, type http://aka.ms/GetLatestOfficeDevTools.

3.  This gives a prompt for OfficeToolsForVS2015.exe, run it.

4.  This takes us to WPI Microsoft Office Developer Tools for Visual Studio 2015.

5.  Click Install.

6.  Click I Accept.

####Task 3:	Import your Azure subscription

1. Open **Visual Studio 2015**.

2. Open the **Cloud Explorer** pane.

3. Sign in with your Azure subscription.

####Task 4:Install Azure PowerShell Module

1. Download and run the **Azure PowerShell** installation file from **http://aka.ms/webpi-azps**.

2. Install the **Azure PowerShell** module.

> **Note:** You are now connected to your lab environment virtual machine.

> **Results**: After completing this exercise, your development virtual machine will have Visual Studio, Azure PowerShell, and the Azure SDK installed.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.  
This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.  
