#Module 11: Automating
Integration with Azure Resources



#Lab: Automating the Creation of a Test Environment using PowerShell


###Objectives



After you complete this lab, you will be able to:



 - Install the Azure PowerShell modules.



 - Authenticate to Azure by using Windows PowerShell.



 - Create a Website instance by using Windows PowerShell.



 - Remove a Website instance by using Windows PowerShell.



 - Create a resource group from a template by using Windows PowerShell.



 - Remove a resource group by using Windows PowerShell.



###Lab Setup



Estimated Time: 45 minutes



For this lab, you will use the available host machine. 
Before you begin 
this lab, you must complete the following steps:



Prior to starting this lab, you must have completed the lab in **Module
2**.



1.  On the host computer, click **Start**, type **Remote**, and then
    click **Remote Desktop Connection**.


2. In Remote Desktop Connection, provide the name of your virtual machine or IP Address
in the **Computer** box by using the following format:



 **vm20532[*Your Name Here*].cloudapp.net:[*Your VM RDP Port*]**



 >  **Note:** The name and port for your virtual
 machine might be saved in the Computer drop-down list. If this is the
 case, use this value instead of typing it in manually. If you are
 unsure about your virtual machine’s RDP port, use either of the Azure
 portals to find your virtual machine’s endpoints. The endpoint with
 the name **Remote Desktop** is the correct port for RDP. This port is
 randomized to protect your virtual machine from unauthorized access.

3. In Remote Desktop Connection, click **Connect**. Wait until the RDP
client accesses the virtual machine.



4. If necessary, sign in by using the following credentials:



 >  User name: **Student**

 > Password: **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**


5. Verify that you received the credentials to sign in to the Azure portal
 from your training provider. 
You will use these credentials and the
Azure account throughout the labs in this course.



##Exercise 1:	Preparing the Azure PowerShell Environment



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



 - Install the Azure PowerShell modules and cmdlets.


 - Authenticate to Azure in Windows PowerShell by using a Publish Settings 
file.


 - View the account details by using Windows PowerShell. 



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Open the Azure PowerShell Console.


2.	Import your Azure subscription by using a Publish Settings file.



####Task 1:	Open the Azure PowerShell Console

Open the **Microsoft Azure PowerShell** console window.



####Task 2:	Import your Azure subscription by using a Publish Settings file


1.  Authenticate to Azure by downloading and saving the Publish Settings file by using the following command and details:



         Get-AzurePublishSettingsFile



 >  File name: **20532**
 
 >
   Save as type: **PUBLISHSETTINGS file**
 
 >
   Directory: **(F):\\Mod11\\Labfiles**



2.  Authenticate to Azure by importing the saved Publish Settings file:



          Import-AzurePublishSettings File
          F:\\Mod11\\Labfiles\\20532.publishsettings



3.  View your active account details:



         Get-AzureAccount



>  **Note:** If you have multiple Azure
 subscriptions, you can use **Select-AzureSubscription** to select the
 appropriate subscription. If your Azure subscription is provided by a
 Learning Partner, it might be an auto-generated account without any
 details. In such a case, this command will return an empty result.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have set up a
development environment to use Windows PowerShell for Azure service
 automation.



##Exercise 2:	Using Windows PowerShell to create and access a Website instance



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



View a list of Websites by using Windows PowerShell.


Create a Website by using Windows PowerShell.


Delete a Website by using Windows PowerShell.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Create a new Website instance by using Windows PowerShell.


2.	Remove a Website instance by using Windows PowerShell.



####Task 1:	Create a new Website instance by using Windows PowerShell

1.  Create a new Website by using a unique name:



         New-AzureWebsite [Unique Name]



2.  View the list of Websites for your subscription by using the following 
    command:



         Get-AzureWebsite



3.  View the details for your newly created Website by using the following
    command:



         Get-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]



4.  Record the **hostname** value from your new Website’s details.


5.  View the newly created Website by using the following command:

          explorer “http://[Host Name]”


6.   Close Internet Explorer.


7.   Switch to the **Microsoft Azure PowerShell** console window.



####Task 2:	Remove a Website instance by using Windows PowerShell

1.  Stop your newly created Website instance by using the following
    command:



         Stop-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]



2.  View the list of Websites for your subscription by using the following
    command:



        Get-AzureWebsite



3.  Remove your newly created Website instance by using the following 
    command:



        Remove-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]



4.  View the details for your recently deleted Website by using the
    following command:



        Get-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used Windows
PowerShell to manage instances of an Azure service.



##Exercise 3:	Using a resource template to create multiple preconfigured resources



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



Authenticate to Azure in Windows PowerShell by using Azure Active 
Directory.


Switch the Azure modules in use by using Windows PowerShell.


Create a resource group from a template by using Windows PowerShell.


Delete a resource group by using Windows PowerShell.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Switch to the Azure Resource Manager PowerShell Modules.


2.	Create a resource group by using Windows PowerShell.


3.	Remove the resource group by using Windows PowerShell.



####Task 1:	Switch to the Azure Resource Manager PowerShell Modules

1.  Switch to the **AzureResourceManager** mode by using the following
 command:



       Login-AzureRmAccount

2.  Authenticate to Azure by signing in to your Azure Active Directory account:


3.   To view your current Azure PowerShell session context type the following command in the console, and then press Enter:

        Get-AzureRmContext



>  **Note:** If you have multiple Azure
 subscriptions, you can use **Select-AzureSubscription** to select the
 appropriate subscription.



####Task 2:	Create a resource group by using Windows PowerShell

1.  Create a new instance of the **Resource group**  by using following command and details:
 
          New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name rga20532 -Location "West US"

          New-AzureRmResourceGroupDeployment -ResourceGroupName rga20532 -TemplateUri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/master/201-web-app-sql-database/azuredeploy.json



 > siteName: **rs20532[*Your Name Here*]**
 
 >
 > hostingPlanName: **rp20532[*Your Name Here*]**
 
 >
 > siteLocation: **West US**
 
 >
 > serverName: **rv20532[*Your Name Here*]**.
 
 >
 > serverLocation: **West US**
 
 >
 > administratorLogin: **testuser**
 
 >
 > administratorLoginPassword: **TestPa\$\$w0rd**
 
 >
 > databaseName: **rd20532[*Your Name Here*]**
 
 
 >
 >  **Note:** Wait for the provisioning process to
  complete. Status messages will be displayed periodically and the final
  message with the details will be displayed when provisioning is
  complete.



2.  View the details for your newly created resource group by using the
    following command:



           Get-AzureRmResourceGroup –ResourceGroupName rga20532




3.  View the details for your newly created Website in your resource group
    by using the following command:



          Get-AzureRmResource -Name rs20532[Your Name Here] -ResourceGroupName
          rga20532 -ResourceType "Microsoft.Web/sites" -ApiVersion 2015-08-01



4.  Record the single value in the **hostNames** array from your new
    Website’s details.


5.  View the newly created Website by using the following command:



          explorer “http://[Host Name]”


6.  Close Internet Explorer.


7.  Switch to the **Microsoft Azure PowerShell** console window.



####Task 3:	Remove the resource group by using Windows PowerShell

1.  Remove your newly created resource group by using the following command:



         Remove-AzureRmResourceGroup –Name rga20532



>  **Note:** Because removing a resource group
 involves removing multiple resources, this process can take 5 to 15
 minutes on average.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used Azure to 
interact with the Resource Manager, resource groups, and resource group
 templates.



©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
 intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use 
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may 
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
 for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.
