#Module 7: Storing Tabular Data in Azure



#Lab: Storing Event Registration Data in Azure Storage Tables



##Exercise 1:	Populating the Sign-In Form with Registrant Names



####Task 1:	Create an instance of the CloudTable class

1.  On the Start screen, click the
    **Desktop** tile.

2.  On the taskbar, click the
    **File Explorer** icon.


3.  In the **Libraries** window, go
    to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod07\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**,
    and then double-click **Contoso.Events.sln.**


4.  In the **Solution Explorer**
    pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder.


5.  In the **Solution Explorer**
    pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.


6.  Double-click the
    **TableStorageHelper.cs** file.


7.  In the **TableStorageHelper**
    class, find the method with the following signature:

        IEnumerable<string> GetRegistrantNames(string eventKey);



8.  Remove the following single
    line of code in the class:


        return Enumerable.Empty<string>();



9.  At the end of the
    **GetRegistrantNames** method and before the closing parenthesis, create
    a **CloudTable** instance:


        CloudTable table = _tableClient.GetTableReference("EventRegistrations");         



####Task 2:	Retrieve strongly-typed registration records by partition key

1.  At the end of the
       **GetRegistrantsNames** method and before the closing parenthesis,
       store the **eventKey** in a **string** variable named **partitionKey**:
      
           string partitionKey = eventKey;



2.  Create a **string** filter by
       using the **TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition**, as shown below:


         string filter = TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition("PartitionKey",
         QueryComparisons.Equal, partitionKey);



3.  At the end of the
    **GetRegistrantsNames** method and before the closing parenthesis,
    create a new instance of the **TableQuery** class and use the fluent
    **Where** method with your filter to generate a query:


         TableQuery<Registration> query = new
         TableQuery<Registration>().Where(filter);



4.  Pass the generated query into
      the **ExecuteQuery** method of the table variable by using the
      **Registration** model class as the generic parameter:


         IEnumerable<Registration>
         registrations = table.ExecuteQuery<Registration>(query);



####Task 3:	Use LINQ-to-Objects to project a list of registrant names


1.  At the end of the
    **GetRegistrantsNames** method and before the closing parenthesis,
    add a statement without the closing semi-colon to store the
    registrations in a variable of the same type named **names**:

         IEnumerable<string> names = registrations



2.  Append the lambda-syntax query
      with a fluent method to order the result by **LastName**:


         .OrderBy(r => r.LastName)



3.  Append the query further with a
    fluent method to order the result by **FirstName**:


         .ThenBy(r => r.FirstName)



4.  Finalize the query with a
    projection method that uses the **String.Format** static method to
   format the string with **LastName**, followed by a command, then a
    space, and then the **FirstName**:


         .Select(r => String.Format("{1}, {0}", r.FirstName, r.LastName));



5.  At the end of the
      **GetRegistrantsNames** method and before the closing parenthesis, add
      the following statement:


         return names;


>  
**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have queried entities by row key or partition key from Table storage.



##Exercise 2:	Updating the Events Website to use Storage Tables



####Task 1:	Update the register controller action to store the registration record



1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder.


2.  In the **Solution Explorer**
    pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Web** project.


3.  In the **Contoso.Events.Web**
    project, expand the **Controllers** folder.

4.  Double-click the
    **RegisterController.cs** file.



5.  In the **RegisterController**
    class, find the method with the following signature:


         Guid StoreRegistration(dynamic registration)



6.  Remove the single line of code
    in the class:


         return Guid.Empty;



7.  At the end of the
    **StoreRegistration** method and before the closing parenthesis, get the
    connection string by using the **CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting**
    static method and the
    **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** value as the
    parameter:


         string connectionString =
         CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString");



8.  Use the
    **CloudStorageAccount.Parse** static method with the connection string
    as the parameter to get the storage account:

         var storageAccount =
         Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.CloudStorageAccount.Parse(connectionString);


9.  At the end of the
    **StoreRegistration** method and before the closing parenthesis, create
    a *CloudTableClient* variable by using the **CreateCloudTableClient**
    method of the storage account:


         var tableClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudTableClient();



10.  By using the
      **GetTableReference** method of the *CloudTableClient* variable and
      **“EventRegistrations”** as the parameter, create a *CloudTable*
      variable:

         var table = tableClient.GetTableReference("EventRegistrations");



11.  At the end of the
      **StoreRegistration** method and before the closing parenthesis, create
       a new **TableOperation** by using the **TableOperation.Insert** static
       method and the dynamic registration as the parameter:


         var operation = TableOperation.Insert(registration);



12.  By using the *CloudTable*
      variable, invoke the **Execute** method by passing the
      **TableOperation** as the parameter:


         table.Execute(operation);



13.  At the end of the
      **StoreRegistration** method and before the closing parenthesis, parse
       the **registration.RowKey** string as a **System.Guid** by using the
      **Guid.Parse** static method :


         Guid rowKey = Guid.Parse(registration.RowKey);



14.  Return the *rowKey* variable as
      the result of the **StoreRegistration** method.

         return rowKey;



####Task 2:	Update the register ViewModel to retrieve the dynamic stub registration from the table



1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** solution folder.


2.  In the **Solution Explorer**
    pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.


3.  Double-click the
    **RegisterViewModel.cs** file.


4.  In the **RegisterViewModel**
    class, locate the method with the following signature:


         RegisterViewModel(string eventKey)



5.  At the end of the
    **RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
    get the connection string using the
    **CloudConfigurationManager.
    GetSetting** static method and the
    **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** value as the
    parameter:

         string connectionString =
         CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString");



6.  Use the
    **CloudStorageAccount.Parse** static method with the connection string
    as the parameter to get the storage account:


         var storageAccount =
         Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.CloudStorageAccount.Parse(connectionString);



7.  At the end of the
    **RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
    create a *CloudTableClient* variable by using the
    **CreateCloudTableClient** method of the storage account:


         var tableClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudTableClient();



8.  Create a *CloudTable* variable
    by using the **GetTableReference** method of the *CloudTableClient*
    variable and **“EventRegistrations”** as the parameter:


         var table = tableClient.GetTableReference("EventRegistrations");



9.  At the end of the
    **RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
    store the **eventKey** in a *string* variable named **partitionKey**:


         string partitionKey = String.Format("Stub_{0}", this.Event.EventKey);



10.  Create a **string** filter by
      using the **TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition**

         string filter = TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition("PartitionKey",
         QueryComparisons.Equal, partitionKey);



11.  At the end of the
      **RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
      create a new instance of the **TableQuery** class and generate a query
       by using the fluent **Where** method with your filter :


         TableQuery query = new TableQuery().Where(filter);



12.  Pass the generated query into
      the **ExecuteQuery** method of the table variable:


         IEnumerable<DynamicTableEntity> tableEntities =
         table.ExecuteQuery(query);



13.  At the end of the
      **RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
      select the single element in the enumerable of **DynamicTableEntity**
      objects:


         DynamicTableEntity tableEntity = tableEntities.SingleOrDefault();



14.  Set the **RegistrationStub**
     property to the *DyanmicTableEntity* variable:


         this.RegistrationStub =
         DynamicEntity.GenerateDynamicItem(tableEntity);



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the
 Azure Storage SDK to retrieve and create entities.



##Exercise 3:	Verifying that the Events Website is Using Azure Storage Tables for Registrations



####Task 1:	Run the data generation console project to populate the Azure storage table with data


1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** solution folder.


2.  In the **Solution Explorer**
    pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project.


3.  In the **Solution Explorer**
    pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project, point
    to **Debug**, and then click **Start New Instance**.



####Task 2:	Use Server Explorer in Visual Studio 2015 to view table storage registrations

1.  On the **View** menu, click
 **Server Explorer**.


2.  Locate the **Azure** node and
    click the arrow at the left side.


3.  Expand the **Storage** node
    under the **Azure** node.


4.  If prompted for your account
    credentials, sign in by using your **Microsoft Account**.


5.  Expand the **Development**
    account node under the **Storage** node.


6.  Expand the **Tables** node
    under the **Development** account node.


7.  Double-click the
    **EventRegistrations** table.


8.  In the **EventRegistrations
    [Table]** tab, scroll through the entities.


9.  Drill-down into the properties
    of a single entity by double-clicking on a row.


10.  Exit out of the **Edit Entity**
     dialog box by clicking the **Cancel** button.


10.  Close the
     **EventRegistrations** **[Table**] tab in Visual Studio.



####Task 3: Debug the cloud web project to register for the event

1.  In the **Solution
      Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project,
      and then click **Set As Startup Project**.



2.  On the **Debug** menu, click
    **Start Debugging**.


3.  If the **Storage Emulator** is
    already running, you will be prompted to shut down the emulator and
    restart it by using a different mode.
    Click **OK**.


4.  On the home page of the web
    application, verify that it displays a list of events.


5.  Click any of the events in the
    list.


6.  On the event web page, click
    **Register Now**.


7.  Fill out all of the fields in
    the registration form and click **Submit**.

8.  Close the tab displaying the
    website.


####Task 4:	Use Server Explorer in Visual Studio 2015 to view the new table storage registration

1.  Switch to the
    **Contoso.Events –** **Microsoft Visual Studio** window.


2.  On the **View** menu, click
    **Server Explorer**.


3.  Locate the **Azure** node.


4.  Double-click
    **EventRegistrations** within the hierarchy of the **Azure** node.


5.  In the **EventRegistrations
    [Table]** tab, scroll through the entities.


6.  In the yellow prompt asking if
    you would like to download the remaining entities, click **click here**.


7.  Drill-down into the properties
     of a single entity by double-clicking on a row.


8.  Click **Timestamp** header twice
    to sort entities in a descending order by their Timestamp.


9.  Locate your new entity at the
    top of the table.


10.  Switch to the **Contoso.Events –
     Microsoft Visual Studio** window.


11.  Close **Contoso.Events –
     Microsoft Visual Studio**.


>  
**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used Visual
Studio and the Azure emulators to create a comprehensive development
 environment for Azure Storage.

** **



©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
 document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
 intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
 this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
 change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.

