#Module 13: Maintaining and Monitoring Web Solutions in Azure



#Lab: Deploying the Events Web Application to Azure



##Exercise 1:	Creating the Target Azure Service for Deployment



####Task 1:	Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal


On the Start screen, click the
**Internet Explorer** tile.


Go to
<https://portal.azure.com>


In the email address box, type
 the email address of your Microsoft account. 
Click **Continue**.


In the password box, type the
 password for your Microsoft account.


Click **Sign In**.



####Task 2:	Create a SQL Database instance



1.  In the navigation pane on
 the left side, scroll down and click **Browse**.


2.  In the **Browse** blade that
 displays, click **SQL databases**.

3.  In the **SQL databases** blade that 
displays, view the list of **SQL databases** instances.

4.  Click **Add** 

5.  In the **SQL database** blade
 that displays, perform the following steps:



  a.  In the **Name** box, type
 **dp20532[*Your Name Here*]**.


  b.  Click **Server**.


     i. In the **Server** blade that
         displays, click **Create a new server**.
   
   
     ii. In the **New Server** blade
          that displays, locate the **Server Name** box.
   
   
     iii. In the **Server Name** box,
           type **sp20532[*Your Name Here*]**.
   
   
     iv. In the **Server Admin Login**
          box, type **testuser**.
   
   
     v. In the **Password** box, type
         **TestPa\$\$w0rd**.
   
   
     vi. In the **Confirm Password**
          box, type **TestPa\$\$w0rd**.
   
   
     vii. Click **Location**.
 
 
       1. In the **Location** blade that
       displays, select the region that is closest to your location.
 
 
     viii. In the **New server** blade,
          click **OK**


  c.  In the **SQL database** blade,
    click **Pricing Tier**.


     i. In the **Recommended pricing
        tiers** blade that displays, select **Basic**.
   
   
     ii. To close the blade, click
        **Select**.


  d.  Click **Select Source**.


    i. Select the **Blank Database**
    option.


  e.  Ensure that the **Pin to dashboard** option is selected.


  f.  In the **SQL database** blade,
     click **Create** to create the SQL database and server.



   >
     **Note:** After your SQL Database instance is created, a tile will
      appear on your Startboard (home screen) that you can use to access the
      blade for your database.** **



6.  On the Startboard, click the
 tile that is created for the new SQL database.


7.  In the **dp20532[*Your Name
Here*]** blade that displays, click the **Properties** tile.


8.  In the **Properties** blade
 that displays, click **Show database connection strings**.


9.  In the **Database connection
strings** blade that displays, locate the **ADO.NET** box.


 a. Copy the connection string.


 b. On the Start screen, type
   **Notepad**.


 c. Click the **Notepad** tile.


 d. Paste the connection string in
 Notepad.


 e. In Notepad, replace the text
**{Your\_password\_here}** with the text **TestPa\$\$w0rd**.


10.  Switch to the **Microsoft
Azure - Internet Explorer** window.


11.  Close the **dp20532[*Your Name
Here*]** blade by clicking the close (x) button at the top of the blade.



####Task 3:	Create a Storage instance



1.  In the navigation pane on
    the left side, scroll down and click **Browse**.


2.  In the **Browse** blade that
     displays, click **Storage accounts**.


3.  In the **Storage accounts** blade that 
    displays, view the list of **Storage** instances.


4.  Click **Add**.
5.  In the **Storage account**
    blade that displays, perform the following steps:



   a.  In the Storage box, type
    sp20532[*Your Name Here*].


   b.  Click Location.


     i. In the **Location** blade,
     select the region closest to your current location.


   c.  Click Pricing Tier.


     i. In the **Recommended Pricing
     Tiers** blade, select **L LRS** for local redundancy.


     ii. Click **Select**.


6.  Click **Create**.



  >  **Note:** After your Storage instance is
   created, a tile will appear on your Startboard (home screen) that you
   can use to access the blade for your Storage instance.



7.  On the Startboard, click the
    tile that is created for the new Storage instance.


8.  In the **sp20532[*Your Name
    Here*]** blade, click the **Keys** icon.
9.  Displays the **Access keys** blade. 
   
  a. Record the name of your
     storage instance into Notepad.
  b. Copy the Connection String Key1 and paste the **Connection Strings Key1**
      in Notepad.
  c. Copy the  Access Key Key1 and paste the **Access Key** 
     in Notepad


10.  Switch to the Microsoft
     Azure - Internet Explorer window.


11.  Close the **sp20532[*Your Name
     Here*]** blade by clicking the close (x) button at the top of the blade.



####Task 4:	Switch to the Azure Management Portal

1.  In the navigation pane on
    the left side, scroll down and click **Browse**.


2.  In the **Browse** blade Search for Service bus namespaces, click **Service bus namespaces**.
3.  It navigates to the old portal.



####Task 5:	Create a Service Bus namespace

1.  In the navigation pane on
    the left side, scroll down and click **Service Bus**.


2.  At the bottom of the screen,
    click **Create**.


3.  In the **Create a Namespace**
    dialog box, perform the following steps:



    a.  In the **Namespace**
     **Name** box, type **sp20532[*Your Name*]**.


    b.  In the **Region** list, select 
    the region that is closest to your location.


    c.  Click the check mark button to 
    create your namespace.



   >
     **Note:** After your namespace is created, an item will appear in the
    list of **Service Bus** namespaces.** **



4.  Click the name of the newly 
     created Service Bus namespace.


5.  At the bottom of the page,
    click **Connection Information**.


  a. Locate the **SAS** section and
   then the value of the **RootManageSharedAccessKey Connection String**.


  b.  Copy the connection string,
  and then paste the connection string in Notepad.


  c. Switch to the **Windows
  Azure - Internet Explorer** window.


   d.  Close the **Access Connection
   Information** dialog box by clicking the check mark button in the
    Management Portal.



   >  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created
    services that will be used for your deployed web application.



##Exercise 2:	Managing Configuration Settings for a Cloud Web Application



####Task 1:	Modify the cloud configuration settings



>  **Note:** If you have not previously saved your
 Microsoft account credentials, you may be required to sign in at any
 point during this lab.



1.  On the Start screen, click
 **Desktop**.


2.  On the taskbar, click the
**File Explorer** icon.


3.  In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod13\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**, and then 
double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.


4.  In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project, expand the **Roles**
folder, and then double-click the **Contoso.Events.Worker** role.


 a. On the left hand side of the
 screen, click the **Settings** tab.


 b. At the top of the page, ensure 
    that the **Service Configuration** list is set to the **All
    Configurations** value.


 c.  Find the setting with the name
    **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString**.


 d.  Ensure that the setting has
     the type **String**.


 e.  In the **Value** box, type the
    **SAS** **Connection** **String** that is recorded in the previous task.


 f.  Locate the **Service
     Configuration** list at the top of the page.


 g.  Select the value **Cloud**.


 h.  Locate the setting with the
 name **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString**.


 i.  In the **Value** box, click 
the button on the right side with an ellipsis (…).


 j.  In the **Create Storage
Connection String** dialog box, perform the following steps:



  i.  Click **Manually entered
      credentials**.


  ii.  In the **Account name** box,
      type the **Storage Account Name** value that is recorded in the previous
      task.


  iii.  In the **Account key** box,
        type the **Primary Access Key** value that is recorded in the previous 
        task.


  iv.  Leave the **Connection** option 
       to the default setting: **Use HTTPS (Recommended)**.


  v.  Click **OK**.


  k.  Locate the **Service
Configuration** list at the top of the page.


    i. Select the value **Local**.


    ii. Verify that the storage setting 
     has the value **UseDevelopmentStorage=true**.


5.  In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project, expand the **Roles**
folder, and then double-click the **Contoso.Events.Web** role.


 a.  On the left side of the screen,
click the **Settings** tab.


 b.  Locate the **Service
Configuration** list at the top of the page.


 c.  Select the value **Cloud**.


 d.  Locate the setting with the
name **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString**.


 e.  In the **Value** box, click the 
button on the right side with an ellipsis (…).


 f.  In the **Create Storage
    Connection String** dialog box, perform the following steps:



  i.  Click **Manually entered
 credentials**.


  ii.  In the **Account name** box,
      type the **Storage Account Name** value that is recorded in the previous
       task.


  iii.   In the **Account key** box,
       type the **Primary Access Key** value that is recorded in the previous
        task.


   iv.   Leave the **Connection** option 
         to the default setting: **Use HTTPS (Recommended)**.


   v.  Click **OK**.


 f.  Locate the **Service
    Configuration** list at the top of the page.


   i. Select the value **Local**.


   ii. Verify that the storage setting
     has the value **UseDevelopmentStorage=true**.



####Task 2:	Modify the Web.config transformation file for the administration project


1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane, expand the **Administration** solution folder, expand the **Contoso.Events.Management** project, expand the
 **Web.config** files, and then double-click the **Web.Debug.config**
 file.


2.  Locate the **appSettings** XML
element.


3.  Locate the **add** child XML
element with a **key** attribute of
**Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString**.


4.  Update the **value** attribute
 of the element to the **Primary Connection String** that was recorded
 from the **Storage** account.


5.  Locate the **appSettings** XML
element.


6.  Locate the **add** child XML
element with a **key** attribute of
**Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString**.


7.  Update the **value** attribute 
of the element to the **SAS** **Connection String** recorded from the
 Service Bus namespace.


8.  Locate the
**connectionStrings** XML element.


9.  Locate the **add** child XML 
element with a **name** attribute of **EventsContextConnectionString**.


10.  Update the **connectionString** 
attribute of the element to the **ADO.NET** **Connection String** that
 was recorded from the **SQL** **Database** instance.



####Task 3:	Modify the app.config file for the worker role project


1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder, expand the
**Contoso.Events.Worker** project, and then double-click the
 **app.config** file.


2.  Locate the
**connectionStrings** XML element.


3.  Locate the **add** child XML
element with a **name** attribute of **EventsContextConnectionString**.


4.  Update the **connectionString**
attribute of the element to the **ADO.NET** **Connection String** that 
was recorded from the **SQL Database** instance.



####Task 4:	Modify the Web.config transformation file for the web role project



1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder, expand the
    **Contoso.Events.Web** project, expand the **Web.config** file, and
 then double-click the **Web.Release.config** file.


2.  Locate the
**connectionStrings** XML element.


3.  Locate the **add** child XML
element with a **name** attribute of **EventsContextConnectionString**.


4.  Update the **connectionString**
attribute of the element to the **ADO.NET** **Connection String** that 
was recorded from the **SQL Database** instance.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have made changes
 to your web applications so that they use different settings and
 connection strings after they are deployed to the cloud.



##Exercise 3:	Deploying the Web Applications to Azure



####Task 1:	Deploy the Cloud Service project to a Cloud Service production environment



1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project, and then click **Publish**.


2.  On the **Sign in** page of the
 wizard, select your subscription.


3.  Click **Next** to go to the
**Settings** page of the wizard.


4.  Locate the **Cloud Service**
list, and then select the **Create New** value.



  >
    **Note:** If you do not have any existing Cloud Services in your
   subscription, you will automatically see the **Created Cloud Service**
   **and Storage Account** dialog without being required to select the
   **Create New** value in the **Cloud Service** list. You can continue
   to Step 5 after you see this dialog.** **



4.  In the **Create Cloud Service**
dialog, perform the following steps:



 a.  In the **Name** box, type
 **cs20532[*Your Name*]**.


 b.  In the **Region or Affinity
Group** box, select the region that is closest to your location.


 c.  Click **Create**.


4.   the **Environment** list,
select the **Production** value.


5.  In the **Build configuration**
list, select the **Release** value.


6.  In the **Service
configuration** list, select the **Cloud** value.


7.  Leave the default values in the 
remaining fields.


8.  Click **Publish**.



####Task 2: Deploy the ASP.NET Web Application project to a Website instance


1.  On the **View** menu, click
 **Server Explorer**.


2.  Locate the **Azure** node and
 click the arrow that is on the left side.


3.  Right-click the **App Service**
node under the **Azure** node, and then click **“Create New App Service”**.


4.  In the **Web App Name** box, type
 a unique name for your Website by using this format: 
**ws20532[*Your
Name*]**.



5.  In the **Subscription** list, select
 the Subscription.

6.  In the **Resource Group** list, select the resource group.
7.  Locate **App Service Plan** list, click on **New**.
    
    a. In the **App Service Plan box, type a unique name.
  
    b.  In the **Location** list, select the region that is closest to your location.
  
    c. In the **Size** list, select the **Free**.
  
    d. Click **OK**.

8.  Select the created **App Service Plan**.


9.  Click **Create**.


10.  In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Administration** solution folder, right-click the
**Contoso.Events.Management** project and then click **Publish**.


11.  On the **Profile** page of the
 wizard, select **Microsoft Azure App Service** as the publish target.


12.  In the **App Service ** dialog box, perform the following steps:



  a.  Select your new Website
     with the prefix **ws20532** from the **Existing Websites** list.


  b.  Click **OK**.


  c.  You will be prompted with a
     dialog box to save changes to your current publish profile. 
    Click
    **Yes** to save.


12.  On the **Connection** page of
     the wizard, click **Next** to go to the **Settings** page of the wizard.


13.  On the **Settings** page of the 
     wizard, change the **Configuration** list’s value to **Debug – Any
     CPU**.


14.  Click **Publish**.


15.  After the publish process is 
     complete, verify that Internet Explorer starts and displays the new 
     Website.


####Task 3:	Verify that the application was successfully published



1.  In Internet Explorer, view
    the **Contoso Events Administration** home page, and then click **Go
    to Events List**.


2.  Verify that there are events
    listed with no registrants.


3.  Close Internet Explorer.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have deployed
 projects to both Websites and Cloud Services.



##Exercise 4:	Monitoring the Web Applications in Azure



####Task 1:	View streaming logs for the Administration application

1.  On the **View** menu, click
 **Server Explorer**.

2.  Locate the **Azure** node and 
    click the arrow that is on the left side.


3.  Expand the **App Services** node
    under the **Azure** node.

4.  Expand the **App Service Plan** node under the **App Services** node.


5.  Right-click the Website node
    beginning with the prefix **ws20532*,*** and then click **View
    Settings**.


6.  Locate the **Application
    Logging (File System)** setting.


7.  Change the value in the list
    from **Off** to **Verbose**.


8.  Click **Save**.


9.  Locate the **Website** node in
    **Server Explorer** that begins with the prefix **ws20532**.


10.  Right-click the Website node 
     that begins with the prefix **ws20532**, and then click **View Streaming
     Logs**.

11.  Locate the **Website** node in
     Server Explorer that begins with the prefix **ws20532**.


12.  Right-click the Website node 
     that begins with the prefix **ws20532**, and then click **View in
     Browser**.     


13.  In Internet Explorer, view the
    **Contoso Events Administration** home page, and then click **Go to
    Events List**.

14.  Switch to the **Contoso.Events –
     Microsoft Visual Studio** window.


15.  Verify that the **Console** pane 
     has two entries, one when you view the **Index** page of the Website and 
     the other when you view the **Events** page of the Website.


16.  Locate the **Website** node in
     **Server Explorer** that begins with the prefix **ws20532**.


17.  Right-click the Website node
     that begins with the prefix **ws20532**, and then click **Stop viewing
     Logs**.


18.  Close the **Internet Explorer**
     application.


19.  Close the **Microsoft Visual
     Studio** application.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have viewed a live
 stream of trace logs for a Website.





©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this 
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
 document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
 intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
 this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in 
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
 change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
 intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.
